# ***Loops*** 
_____________________________________________________________
> ### Right-angled triangle
Write a loop that makes seven calls to *console.log* to output the following triangle:
\#  
\#\#  
\#\#\#  
\#\#\#\#  
\#\#\#\#\#  
\#\#\#\#\#\#  
\#\#\#\#\#\#\#  

> ### Fizz Buzz
Write a program that uses console.log to print all the numbers from 1 to *n*, with two exceptions. For numbers divisible by 3, print "Fizz" instead of the number, and for numbers divisible by 5 (and not 3), print "Buzz" instead. When you have that working, modify your program to print "FizzBuzz" for numbers that are divisible by both 3 and 5 (and still print "Fizz" or "Buzz" for numbers divisible by only one of those).
```js
fizzBuzz(10)
//1 2 Fizz 4 Buzz Fizz 7 8 Fizz Buzz

fizzBuzz(15)
//1 2 Fizz 4 Buzz Fizz 7 8 Fizz Buzz 11 Fizz 13 14 FizzBuzz

```

> ### Chessboard
Write a program that creates a string that represents an n×n grid, using newline characters to separate lines. At each position of the grid there is either a space or a "#" character. The characters should form a chessboard.This is an example of 8x8 chessboard:   
\#\*\#\*\#\*\#\*  
\*\#\*\#\*\#\*\#  
\#\*\#\*\#\*\#\*  
\*\#\*\#\*\#\*\#  
\#\*\#\*\#\*\#\*  
\*\#\*\#\*\#\*\#  
\#\*\#\*\#\*\#\*  
\*\#\*\#\*\#\*\#   

> ### Return the Index of the First Vowel
Create a function that returns the index of the first vowel in a string.

```js
firstVowel("apple") ➞ 0

firstVowel("hello") ➞ 1

firstVowel("STRAWBERRY") ➞ 3

firstVowel("pInEaPPLe") ➞ 1
```

Notes:  
Input will be single words (not space).  
Characters in words will be upper or lower case.  
"y" is not considered a vowel.  
Input always contains a vowel.  

> ### Count Instances of a Character in a String
Create a function that takes two strings as arguments and returns the number of times the first string (the single character) is found in the second string.

```js
charCount("a", "edabit") ➞ 1

charCount("c", "Chamber of secrets") ➞ 1

charCount("b", "big fat bubble") ➞ 4
```
Notes
Your output must be case-sensitive (see second example).




> ### How Many Vowels?
Create a function that takes a string and returns the number (count) of vowels contained within it.

```js
countVowels("Celebration") ➞ 5

countVowels("Palm") ➞ 1

countVowels("Prediction") ➞ 4
```

Notes:   
a, e, i, o, u are considered vowels (not y).   
All test cases are one word and only contain letters.  

> ### Reverse the Case
Given a string, create a function to reverse the case. All lower-cased letters should be upper-cased, and vice versa.

```js
reverseCase("Happy Birthday") ➞ "hAPPY bIRTHDAY"

reverseCase("MANY THANKS") ➞ "many thanks"

reverseCase("sPoNtAnEoUs") ➞ "SpOnTaNeOuS"
```

> ### Panlindrome checker

Complete the function to return `true` if the given string is a palindrome. Otherwise, return `false` .

A palindrome is a word or sentence that's spelled the same way both forward and backward, ignoring punctuation, case, and spacing.

You'll need to remove all non-alphanumeric characters (punctuation, spaces and symbols) and turn everything into the same case (lower or upper case) in order to check for palindromes.

I'll pass strings with varying formats, such as `"racecar"` , `"RaceCar"` , and `"race CAR"` among others.

We'll also pass strings with special symbols, such as `"2A3*3a2"` , `"2A3 3a2"` , and `"2_A3*3#A2"` .

``` javascript
function palindrome(str) {
    return true;
}
palindrome("eye"); //true
```

> ### Sum All Odd Fibonacci Numbers

Given a positive integer `num` , return the sum of all odd Fibonacci numbers that are less than or equal to `num` .

The first two numbers in the Fibonacci sequence are `1` and `1` . Every additional number in the sequence is the sum of the two previous numbers. The first six numbers of the Fibonacci sequence are 1, 1, 2, 3, 5 and 8.

For example, `sumFibs(10)` should return 10 because all odd Fibonacci numbers less than or equal to 10 are `1` , `1` , `3` , and `5` .

``` javascript
function sumFibs(num) {
    return num;
}
sumFibs(4000000); //4613732
```
