# **_Combinations_**

---

### 1. Return the Index of the First Vowel
Create a function that returns the index of the first vowel in a string.

```js
firstVowel("apple") ➞ 0

firstVowel("hello") ➞ 1

firstVowel("STRAWBERRY") ➞ 3

firstVowel("pInEaPPLe") ➞ 1
```

Notes:  
- Input will be single words (not space).  
- Characters in words will be upper or lower case.  
- "y" is not considered a vowel.  

---

### 2. Count Instances of a Character in a String
Create a function that takes two strings as arguments and returns the number of times the first string (the single character) is found in the second string.

```js
charCount("a", "edabit") ➞ 1

charCount("c", "Chamber of secrets") ➞ 1

charCount("b", "big fat bubble") ➞ 4
```

Notes:
- Your output must be case-sensitive (see second example).

---

### 3. How Many Vowels?
Create a function that takes a string and returns the number (count) of vowels contained within it.

```js
countVowels("Celebration") ➞ 5

countVowels("Palm") ➞ 1

countVowels("Prediction") ➞ 4
```

Notes:  
- a, e, i, o, u are considered vowels (not y).  
- All test cases are one word and only contain letters.

---

### 4. Sum All Odd Fibonacci Numbers

Given a positive integer `num` , return the sum of all odd Fibonacci numbers that are less than or equal to `num` .

The first two numbers in the Fibonacci sequence are `1` and `1` . Every additional number in the sequence is the sum of the two previous numbers. The first six numbers of the Fibonacci sequence are 1, 1, 2, 3, 5 and 8.

For example, `sumFibs(10)` should return 10 because all odd Fibonacci numbers less than or equal to 10 are `1` , `1` , `3` , and `5` .

``` javascript
function sumFibs(num) {
    return num;
}
sumFibs(4000000); //4613732
```

---

### 5. Find the Longest Word in a String

Return the length of the longest word in the provided sentence.
Your response should be a number.

``` javascript
function findLongestWordLength(str) {
    return str.length;
}
findLongestWordLength("The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog"); //6 - jumped
```

---

### 6. Panlindrome checker

Complete the function to return `true` if the given string is a palindrome. Otherwise, return `false` .

A palindrome is a word or sentence that's spelled the same way both forward and backward, ignoring punctuation, case, and spacing.

You'll need to remove all non-alphanumeric characters (punctuation, spaces and symbols) and turn everything into the same case (lower or upper case) in order to check for palindromes.

I'll pass strings with varying formats, such as `"racecar"` , `"RaceCar"` , and `"race CAR"` among others.

We'll also pass strings with special symbols, such as `"2A3*3a2"` , `"2A3 3a2"` , and `"2_A3*3#A2"` .

``` javascript
function palindrome(str) {
    return true;
}
palindrome("eye"); //true
```

---

### 7. Reverse the Case
Given a string, create a function to reverse the case. All lower-cased letters should be upper-cased, and vice versa.

```js
reverseCase("Happy Birthday") ➞ "hAPPY bIRTHDAY"

reverseCase("MANY THANKS") ➞ "many thanks"

reverseCase("sPoNtAnEoUs") ➞ "SpOnTaNeOuS"
```

### 8. Max Consecutive Ones

Given an binary array, find the maximum number of consecutive 1s in this array.

```js
findMaxConsecutiveOnes([1, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1]); // 3

findMaxConsecutiveOnes([0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 1]); // 2

findMaxConsecutiveOnes([0, 0]); // 0
```

Notes:
- The input array will only contain 0 and 1
- The length of input array is a positive integer

